Documentation on System PCG for Self Hosted Palette Installation (#1348)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04-clusters/02-data-center/01-maas/02-architecture.md

  <br />

  The diagram below illustrates how MAAS works with Palette using a PCG.

  ![Network flow from an architectural perspective of how MAAS works with Palette](/maas_cluster_architecture.png)

  <br />

- When the PCG is installed, it registers itself with a Palette instance and enables secure communication between the SaaS portal and the private cloud environment. The gateway enables installation and end-to-end lifecycle management of Kubernetes clusters in private cloud environments from Palette's SaaS portal.

# Deploy with Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) and System Private Gateway

You can deploy MaaS using the following deployment options.

<br />

- Using the **Private Cloud Gateway (PCG)**

>   You will need a PCG when you're deploying a cluster or deleting a cluster. Once the target cluster is deployed and running, the target cluster connects to Palette directly without needing the PCG anymore. PCG connects to both Palette SaaS environments and self-hosted Palette instances. 

Author: I understand this, I tried putting this information under the PCG Deployment section. I'll review the points I missed on the ticket.

  <br />

- Using the **System Private Gateway**

  Self-hosted Palette instances can communicate directly with the MAAS environment if both resources can access each other directly over the network. In this scenario, you can use the System Private Gateway. The System Private Gateway directly communicates between MaaS and Palette. 

  When registering a MAAS account with Palette, toggle on **Use System Private Gateway** to enable direct communication between Palette and MAAS. Refer to the [Register and Manage MAAS Cloud Account](/clusters/data-center/maas/register-manage-maas-cloud-accounts) guide to learn more.

The following table explains the different use cases between PCG and System Private Gateway. 

<br />

- Connects to Palette SaaS: Defines if the PCG or the System PCG connects to Palette SaaS environments.  

- Connects to self-hosted Palette: If PCG or System PCG connects to self-hosted Palette instance. 

- Supports direct communication between MAAS and Palette: If PCG or System PCG supports direct communicaton between MaaS and Palette. Direct communication happens if both resources can directly access each other over the network. 

> - Requires internet access: If PCG or System Private Gateway requires the Palette environment to have internet access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Internet access required: If the component PCG or System PCG requires public internet access. 
```

<br />

| Scenario | Private Cloud Gateway | System Private Gateway |
|-----------|----|----------------|

> | Connects to Palette SaaS. | ✅ | ❌ |
> | Connects to self-hosted Palette. | ✅ | ✅ |
> | Supports direct communication between MAAS and Palette. |  ❌ | ✅ |
> | Requires internet access. |   ✅  | ❌ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connects to Palette SaaS. | ✅ | ❌ |
| Connects to self-hosted Palette. | ✅ | ✅ |
| Supports direct communication with MAAS. |  ❌ | ✅ |
| Internet access required. |   ✅  | ❌ |
```

- A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) that you install in a MAAS cloud using a local installer facilitates communication between Palette and MAAS. The PCG is necessary in MAAS environments where Palette does not have direct network access to the MAAS server. Since MAAS environments are typically in a private network without a central endpoint, the PCG provides this endpoint and also wraps the MAAS environment into a cloud account that you can target for cluster deployment in Palette. Refer to the section below to learn about the PCG deployment options you have. 

- When the PCG is installed, it registers itself with a Palette instance and enables secure communication between the SaaS portal and the private cloud environment. The gateway enables installation and end-to-end lifecycle management of Kubernetes clusters in private cloud environments from Palette's SaaS portal.

  <br />

  The diagram below illustrates how MAAS works with Palette using a PCG.

  ![Network flow from an architectural perspective of how MAAS works with Palette](/maas_cluster_architecture.png)

  <br />

# PCG Deployment Options

You can deploy MaaS using the following deployment options.

<br />

> - Using the **Private Cloud Gateway (PCG)**
> 
> 
> - Using the **System Private Gateway**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Private Cloud Gateway**

- **System Private Gateway**
```

> ## Private Cloud Gateway (PCG)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Private Cloud Gateway
```

Palette-deployed host clusters need to communicate with Palette throughout their entire lifecycle. When host clusters are deployed into private networks, accessing the Palette SaaS platform can be a challenge due to network restrictions. To address these network challenges, you can deploy a PCG and allow the PCG cluster to access the internet and receive inbound communication from the Palette SaaS platform. This solution lets you secure your private network by centralizing all Palette inbound communication with a dedicated instance. 
  
All Palette deployed clusters will use the PCG cluster during the creation and deletion phase. Once a host cluster is available, the internal Palette agent will communicate with Palette directly. The Palette agent is the originator of all communication, so the network requests are outbound towards Palette. The exception is a host cluster creation or deletion request, as those requests are sourced from Palette SaaS and are directed to the PCG.   

>   When your self-hosted Palette instance does not have access to your MAAS environment due to firewalls or NAT blocking inbound traffic deploy a separate PCG. PCG will establish a network connection to the MAAS environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 If your self-hosted Palette instance does not have access to your MAAS environment due to firewalls, separate isolated networks, or NAT blocking inbound traffic rules. You can deploy a PCG to address these challenges. The deployed PCG must have network access to the MAAS environment and the self-hosted Palette instances. 
```

# MAAS Bare-Metal Kubernetes Architecture

> Canonical MAAS is an open-source tool that lets you discover, commission, deploy and re-deploy operating systems to physical servers. The following are some architectural highlights of bare-metal Kubernetes clusters that Palette deploys using Canonical MAAS. 

Author: Thanks, Rita.

- Palette provides a cloud-like experience for deploying clusters on bare metal servers. The result is increased performance at minimal cost and operational effort.

- A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) that you install in a MAAS cloud using a local installer facilitates communication between Palette and MAAS. The PCG is necessary in MAAS environments where Palette does not have direct network access to the MAAS server. Since MAAS environments are typically in a private network without a central endpoint, the PCG provides this endpoint and also wraps the MAAS environment into a cloud account that you can target for cluster deployment in Palette.  

  <br />

  The diagram below illustrates how MAAS works with Palette using a PCG.

  <br />

- When the PCG is installed, it registers itself with a Palette instance and enables secure communication between the SaaS portal and the private cloud environment. The gateway enables installation and end-to-end lifecycle management of Kubernetes clusters in private cloud environments from Palette's SaaS portal.

> - Self-hosted Palette instances can communicate directly with the MAAS environment if both resources can access each other directly over the network. In this scenario, you can use the system PCG. When you register a MAAS account with Palette, you would select **Use System Private Gateway** to enable direct communication between Palette and MAAS. Refer to the [Register and Manage MAAS Cloud Account](/clusters/data-center/maas/register-manage-maas-cloud-accounts) guide to learn more. For the self-hosted Palette instance, MAAS is reachable on port 5240.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Self-hosted Palette instances can communicate directly with the MAAS environment if both resources can access each other directly over the network. In this scenario, you can use the system PCG. When you register a MAAS account with Palette, you would select **Use System Private Gateway** to enable direct communication between Palette and MAAS. Refer to the [Register and Manage MAAS Cloud Account](/clusters/data-center/maas/register-manage-maas-cloud-accounts) guide to learn more. 
```
The last sentence, that should be specified in the Register and Manage MAAS Cloud Account

Author: Added in the Register and Manage MAAS Cloud Account page.

  

The table below lists when you would use Palette's PCG or the System Private Gateway. 

<br />

> | Attribute | PCG | System Private Gateway |

Reviewer: If you are spelling out System PCG, then do the same for PCG.

Reviewer: To Rita's point, you can replace the word attribute with Behavior or Scenario.

Author: Fixed it.

|-----------|----|----------------|
| Connects to Palette SaaS. | ✅ | ❌ |
| Connects to self-hosted Palette. | ✅ | ✅ |

> | Direct network access to MAAS from self-hosted Palette.  |  ❌ | ✅ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Supports direct communication between MASS and Palette.  |  ❌ | ✅ |
```

Author: Added.

> | Environment requires internet access. |   ✅  | ❌ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Requires internet access. |   ✅  | ❌ |
```

Author: Added.

> 

Reviewer: It will also help if you explain each row. This can be as simple as a bullet list or something similar. But from a reader's perspective, it can be difficult to understand the table without some additional context.

Author: Added it in the section.

- When the PCG is installed, it registers itself with a Palette instance and enables secure communication between the SaaS portal and the private cloud environment. The gateway enables installation and end-to-end lifecycle management of Kubernetes clusters in private cloud environments from Palette's SaaS portal.

- Self-hosted Palette instances can communicate directly with the MAAS environment if both resources can access each other directly over the network. In this scenario, you can use the system PCG. When you register a MAAS account with Palette, you would select **Use System Private Gateway** to enable direct communication between Palette and MAAS. Refer to the [Register and Manage MAAS Cloud Account](/clusters/data-center/maas/register-manage-maas-cloud-accounts) guide to learn more.

  

The table below lists when you would use Palette's PCG or the System Private Gateway. 

<br />

| Attribute | PCG | System Private Gateway |
|-----------|----|----------------|
| Connects to Palette SaaS. | ✅ | ❌ |
| Connects to self-hosted Palette. | ✅ | ✅ |
| Direct network access to MAAS from self-hosted Palette.  |  ❌ | ✅ |
| Environment requires internet access. |   ✅  | ❌ |

> | Requires Dedicated Infrastructure | ✅| ❌ |

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | Reduces Network Hops | ❌ | ✅ |

Author: ```suggestion
```

  <br />

  Refer to image below for MAAS Cluster Architecture.

  <br />

- When the PCG is installed, it registers itself with a Palette instance and enables secure communication between the SaaS portal and the private cloud environment. The gateway enables installation and end-to-end lifecycle management of Kubernetes clusters in private cloud environments from Palette's SaaS portal.

- Self-hosted Palette instances can communicate directly with the MAAS environment if both resources are reachable from a networking perspective. You can enable this behavior when registering a MAAS account with Palette. In the Palette MAAS account wizard, select the **Use System Private Gateway** option to enable direct communication between Palette and MAAS.  Refer to the [Register and Manage MAAS Cloud Account](/clusters/data-center/maas/register-manage-maas-cloud-accounts) guide to learn more.

  

The table below distinguishes between the properties of PCG and System Private Gateway: 

> 

Author: Sure, Rita. if it's long for us, it will definitely be long for the user. So, we can make this short.

> 

Reviewer: This whole table in my opinion should get moved to its own section in the Architecture page.  You can link to the table from the first PCG bullet.  You could call the section "PCG Deployment Options" or something along those lines.  In that section, you could explain that there are two PCGs and incorporate all the information Kevin added in the ticket that explains what PCG does.  YOu can also move your  System PCG bullet content into this section.

> 

Author: Create a section, added Kevin's information and also moved the bullet.

![Network flow from an architectural perspective of how MAAS works with Palette](/maas_cluster_architecture.png)

> - Self-hosted Palette installation provides a **Use System PCG** feature when you create a cloud account for the MAAS environment, so you don't need to install the PCG. The feature enables direct communication of the Palette instance agent with MAAS. 

Author: Fixed it in local.

> - Self-hosted Palette installation provides a **Use System PCG** feature when you create a cloud account for the MAAS environment, so you don't need to install the PCG. The feature enables direct communication of the Palette instance agent with MAAS. 

Author: Fixed the information architecture for this page.

> - Self-hosted Palette installation provides a **Use System PCG** feature when you create a cloud account for the MAAS environment, so you don't need to install the PCG. The feature enables direct communication of the Palette instance agent with MAAS. 

Author: Incorporated.
